# time_lapse_image_analysis_PLOS_ONE
This repository is a collection of MATLAB scripts and CellProfiler pipelines described in detail in our protocol 
on protocols.io, cited as follows:

D.A. Rennerfeldt, P. Manning, J.S. Raminhos, and K.J. Van Vliet.  "Technological advancements in image processing and
analysis for label-free investigations of bone marrowstromal cell behavior," 2019.  DOI: dx.doi.org/10.17504/protocols.io.w2sfgee

They were written by Deena Rennerfeldt (@deenaar), Matt Whitfield (@whitkala), and Pristinavae Manning (as 
an undergraduate under the supervision of Deena Rennerfeldt) as part of a time lapse image analysis research
study:

D. A. Rennerfeldt, J. S. Raminhos, S. M. Leff, and P. Manning, “Emergent heterogeneity in putative mesenchymal stem cell colonies: single-cell time lapsed analysis,” (in Review, PLOS ONE), 2019.

These scripts are available as an effort toward providing reproducability for that research study rather than as
a turnkey analysis program.  The data files generated by CellProfiler for that study are also provided, where
each file represents a set of time lapse images for a single colony tracked at the single-cell level (using 
the CellProfiler pipeline listed as D9 in this repository).  This research study was conducted in the Van Vliet
Laboratory for Material Chemomechanics under the direction of Krystyn Van Vliet.

If using this repository, please use the following two citations:

D.A. Rennerfeldt, P. Manning, J.S. Raminhos, and K.J. Van Vliet.  "Technological advancements in image processing and
analysis for label-free investigations of bone marrowstromal cell behavior," 2019.  DOI: dx.doi.org/10.17504/protocols.io.w2sfgee

D. A. Rennerfeldt, M. J. Whitfield, P. Manning, and K. J. Van Vliet. GitHub Repository. "time_lapse_image_analysis_PLOS_ONE,” 2019. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.2551721  
